Vamsi Mokkapati
404-464-206
CS 35L Homework 3
TA: Sharath Gopal

1. 
The line “case_long_iso_time_style:” was removed because the goto
statement within the for loop (line 2036) that calls it is removed later
in the patch; therefore, it is pointless to keep the line. However, it is
not strictly necessary to remove that line, since there is now no
statement in the code that calls it, and it will just be ignored if not
removed.

2. 
If my company adopts this patched version of Coreutils, I’d realize that
the date format outputted by ls.c would be such that the months are
written in English, and that the format of the dates would be in the
month-day-year (MDY) format which is used primarily in the United States
(i.e. Aug 17, 2015). Therefore some problems with my application would
include the fact that non-English speakers would not understand what the
date is at all, and that English speakers from other places like Europe or 
Australia would find the MDY format to be unfamiliar, since they’re 
accustomed to the day-month-year (DMY) format. Any future programs that
might depend on the date format in a specific order might also crash if
the MDY format is not used in the area.

3. 
I receive the following error when I try invoking randline.py on an empty
file /dev/null by typing “python randline.py -n 3 /dev/null”:
      IndexError: list index out of range

I get this error stating that my list index is out of range, since the 
randline code is supposed to output the specified number of random lines
from a file, and using an empty file with 0 lines of text means that it
is impossible to retrieve any nonzero amount of lines from that empty file.
Therefore, there is an index out of bounds error, since any nonzero number
is out of bounds, and self.lines contains no lines.   

4. 
In order to use python3, I had to go into a specific path, so I typed in
“export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/cs/bin”. Then, I tried using python3 to get 
3 random lines by typing 
“python3 randline.py -n 3 /dev/null”, and I got the following message, 
reporting an error on line 65:

  File "randline.py", line 65
    except IOError as (errno, strerror):
                      ^
SyntaxError: invalid syntax

The reason this error occurs when running randline on python 3 is the
removal of a feature of the python language from the 2nd to 3rd version
called tuple parameter unpacking. In python 2.0, there was the ability
to put in an argument that is a sequence, as opposed to just a character;
for example, when defining a function func:

“def func(age, (firstName, lastName), gender) :”

The (firstName, lastName) argument is a sequence, and the function would
say that is an acceptable parameter in python 2.0, and it would unpack
the tuple argument. However, due to some issues with this feature, 
a Python Enhancement Proposal removed this feature in python 3.0, and as
is seen in line 65 of the randline code, the tuple unpacking feature is
required, since (errno, strerror) is a sequence. Therefore, python 3.0
reports a syntax error.

To fix this error in Python 3, the line should be changed to:
    except IOError as err: