Vamsi Mokkapati
404-464-206
CS 35L Homework 6
TA: Sharath Gopal

1.
If the other teams were observing the bytes going across
the network, the resulting network is still secure, since
all the information transferred between computers is 
encrypted, and the other teams can only view the 
encrypted data, which is garbage without knowledge of
the private key. 

However, if the other teams tapped keyboards, then they
can have access to information such as passphrases and
passwords, which can compromise security since they now
have access to the secret key that allows them to
translate the encrypted data. They have access to 
information such as passwords, since any information that
the user provides to the computer is compromised with 
tapped keyboards.

If the other teams had physical control of a USB off of
which my team was booting off of, then they now have 
access to the private key with which they can decrypt
the data. Therefore, the network security is again 
compromised, and access to the encrypted key is not 
garbage like in the first case.

2.
The gpg --verify command is only meant to check whether
or not the signature is valid for the given key. It 
cannot determine who actually created the tar files in
question that it is verifying. 

The reason for this anomaly is because although it is
easily possible for the public key to be verified to help
decrypt the sent code, it is not easy to check to whom the
public key belongs. For instance, a malicious attacker
Trudy can intercept an exchange between Alice and Bob by
simply putting Alice’s signature on a group of files, and
altering the message that Bob is to receive. Since Trudy
used the signature belonging to Alice, Bob will think the
message is unaltered and valid, though it is not.

To fix this problem, a third party company such as 
VeriSign or Symantec could be utilized for the purpose of
mapping all individuals with their respective public keys.
If the company is trusted and reliable, then the receiver
can find a fraud by verifying through the company if the
public key is owned by the desired individual. 