Vamsi Mokkapati
404-464-206
CS 35L Homework 4
TA: Sharath Gopal

1. -

2.
In order to check out version 3.0 into a new branch named “quote”,
I typed “git checkout v3.0 -b quote”

3.
To run the patch quote-3.0.txt, I ran the “patch” command by 
typing “patch -p1 < ../quote-3.0-patch.txt” since the patch file
was located in my home directory. I used the -p1 option
again, since I learned that the “-pnum” option will skip “num”
leading slashes from the patch file’s name, and in this case,
it’s necessary to skip 1 slash.

4.
I learned that typing C-x 4 a would add material to the ChangeLog
for each file I applied it to.

5.
To make my ChangeLog entry for my patch, I simply went to all my
modified files listed in my quote-3.0-patch.txt (cmp.c, diff.c,
diff3.c, dir.c, sdiff.c and util.c) and put down the changes in 
the ChangeLog using the C-x 4 a command.

6.
To make sure I commit my changes to my “quote” branch, I knew I 
needed to use the “git commit” command, so I went to 
“man git-commit” to see how it worked. I typed out “git add .”
to add a new commit, and then typed 
“git commit --file=src/ChangeLog” to commit all 6 of my modified
files.

7.
In order to generate my formatted-patch.txt, I used the
“git format-patch” command, and made sure its output went into 
the correct text file by using the “stdout” flag. To find out how
to get it to output the correct text, I typed in
“man git-format-patch”:

“git format-patch --stdout > formatted-patch.txt”

8.
My partner for this section of the homework is Shadi Aranki, and
to test his formatted-patch.txt, I typed out
“git checkout v3.0 -b partner” followed by 
“git am formatted-patch.txt” to apply the formatted patch.
Next, I built the resulting modified version of Diffutils by
typing “./bootstrap”, “./configure”, “make”, and “make check”.
I found out that his patch worked as expected.

9.
In order to make sure my ChangeLog entry worked, I ran the 
command “make distdir”. Then, to see my ChangeLog entry, I simply
went into my “src” folder by going into diffutils, and typing in
“cd src”, and then typing “cat ChangeLog”. After going through my
ChangeLog, I noticed that the changes I made were at the beginning
of the file.

10.
In order to go into the directory specified in the instructions, 
I just typed out “cd ~eggert/src/gnu/emacs”. Since the “gitk” 
command is stored in usr/local/cs/bin, I exported the path to 
illustrate that: “export PATH=/usr/local/cs/bin:$PATH”. Then,
I typed in the “gitk” command. I found that the newest merge that
is not newer than 2015-01-25 is lisp/gnus/nnimap.el authored by 
Trevor Murphy and committed by Katsumi Yamaoka. It allows people 
to use Google X-GM-LABELS if it is present.